Add dockerfile and stuff (#12)
src-d/tm-experiments: README.md

# Topic Modeling Experiments on Source Code

## Getting Started

_In the following we do not do so, however it is good practice to limit the amount of memory docker containers have access to with the `-m` flag._

Start by cloning the repository, then building the docker image:

```
git clone https://github.com/src-d/tm-experiments
```

You should also create a directory for all the data. In the following, we call this `/path/to/data`, and will be using defaults values provided by the container for inputs/outputs.

> ### Preprocess

Reviewer: We should rely on either our `Makefile` or a `docker-compose` config file instead of having to launch several commands by hand. This is less error-prone (and less tiring while working :relaxed:)

Author: True - although it is the only one which requires > 1 command, I agree it would be more convenient to use docker-compose/Makefile for this one

Launch Babelfish, install all drivers and check you can see them:

```
docker run -d --rm --name tmexp_bblfshd --privileged -p 9432:9432 -v /var/lib/bblfshd:/var/lib/bblfshd bblfsh/bblfshd:latest-drivers

> docker exec -it tmexp_bblfshd bblfshctl driver install --all -f

Reviewer: We don't need to install drivers in the `bblfsh/bblfshd:latest-drivers` image. It's also important that we don't have to because we only emit a docker restart when we restart it from the main container (otherwise we'd also have to install drivers there  and it would be much slower).

Author: Even the first time we use the image ?

Reviewer: Yup, it's stateless :)

Author: Ah oke, my bad will remove :)

Reviewer: BTW I didn't notice it during the review but since it's stateless we should not mount /var/lib/bblfshd

Author: oh my bad, removing :+1:

docker exec -it tmexp_bblfshd bblfshctl driver list
```

Clone one or multiple repository in a directory, then launch gitbase:

```
docker run -d --rm --name gitbase -p 3306:3306 --link tmexp_bblfshd:tmexp_bblfshd -e BBLFSH_ENDPOINT=tmexp_bblfshd:9432 -v /path/to/repos:/opt/repos srcd/gitbase:latest
```

Finally, launch the preprocessing (we give the docker socket in order to be able to relaunch Babelfish, however this is a temporary hack):

```

> docker run --rm -i -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock -v /path/to/data:/data --link tmexp_bblfshd:tmexp_bblfshd --link gitbase:gitbase tmexp preprocess -r repo

Reviewer: Now that we have 3 containers and 3 links, it's probably better to switch to the non-deprecated network instead of link, but since this is already working I'm ok with leaving it as is. Just mentioning it for a future experiment :)

Author: I've never used it, how does it work ?

Reviewer: Basically you create a network and specify it for each container. For example, in `style-analyzer`, I used:

    docker network create --driver bridge report_0.1.1
    docker run --network report_0.1.1 -d --rm --name report_0.1.1_bblfshd --privileged bblfsh/bblfshd\:v2.11.0 --log-level DEBUG
    docker exec report_0.1.1_bblfshd bblfshctl driver install javascript docker://bblfsh/javascript-driver:v1.2.0
    docker run --network report_0.1.1 -e LOOKOUT_BBLFSHD=ipv4://report_0.1.1_bblfshd:9432 --name report_0.1.1 --entrypoint /bin/bash -it --rm -v /storage/hugo:/storage -v /home/hugo:/home ubuntu:18.04

The advantage is that all containers see each other directly in the network, no need for linking. It's a bit easier to maintain and it's not deprecated (link is). As I said since this works it's not necessary to tweak it right now, I was mentioning it to let you know for the next time :)

Author: Oke, no it looks cool - and idk that link as depreciated. Will probably include this in future PR, it makes sense to use it

Reviewer: I should mention that it has a “disadvantage”: it persists after all containers have been removed if it is not removed also.

Author: ah, hm I guess it's not so bad but yeah got to keep it in mind then

## Getting Started

_In the following we do not do so, however it is good practice to limit the amount of memory docker containers have access to with the `-m` flag._

Start by cloning the repository, and building the docker image:

```
git clone https://github.com/src-d/tm-experiments
docker build tm-experiments -t tmexp
```

In all of the following, all of the created data will be stored in a single directory (hereinafter referred to as `/path/to/data`), which would have the following structure if you were to run with the exact same names:

```
data
├── datasets
│   └── my-dataset.pkl
├── bows
│   └── my-bow
│       ├── doc.bow_tm.txt
│       ├── docword.bow_tm.txt
│       └── vocab.bow_tm.txt
└── topics
    └── my-bow
        └── my-exp
            ├── doc.topic.txt
            └── word.topic.npy
```

For all commands we only specify the required arguments, check the optional ones with `docker run --rm -i tmexp $CMD --help`

### Preprocess

This command will allow you to create a dataset from a cloned git repository. Before launching the command, you will thus need to clone one (or multiple) repository in a directory, as well as start the Babelfish and Gitbase servers:

```

> make start RESOLVED_REPOS=~/path/to/cloned/repos

Reviewer: `REPOS=~/path/to/cloned/repos make start` is safer (would work with a relative path)

Author: agreed, I actually created a `/path/to/data` when testing the code x)

```

> You can now launch the preprocessing withe the follow command _(we give the docker socket in order to be able to relaunch Babelfish, however this is a **temporary** hack)_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now launch the preprocessing with the following command _(we give the docker socket in order to be able to relaunch Babelfish, however this is a **temporary** hack)_:
```
